In this video, I'll show you how
to evaluate a language model.
The metric for this is called perplexity
and I'll explain what this is.
First you will divide the tax corpus
into train validation and test data.
Then you will dive into
the concept of perplexity.
An important metric used to
evaluate language models.
So how can you tell how well your
language model is performing?
Recall from the previous videos that
a language model assigns a probability
to each sentence.
The model was trained on a corpus.
So for the training sentences it
may assign very high probabilities.
You should therefore first split
the corpus to have some testing and
validation data that are not used for
the training.
As you may have done in the other
machine learning projects,
you will create the following split of
training, validation, and test sets.
The training set is used
to train your model.
The validation set is used for
things like tuning hyper parameters, and
the test set is held out for
the end where you test it once and
get an accuracy score that reflects how
well your model performs on unseen data.
A commonly used split for
smaller datasets is 80, 10, 10 or
80% of training,
10% of validation and 10% to testing.
In a very large data set such as
tax analysis testing could make
up as little as 1% of your training sets.
In NLP there are two main methods for
splitting.
You can split the corpus by choosing
longer continuous segments like
Wikipedia articles or
you can randomly choose short sequences
of words such as those in the sentences.
Now that you've split the dataset,
you can evaluate the test sets
using the perplexity metric.
Perplexity is a commonly used
metric in language modeling.
But what does it mean?
If you're familiar with the word
perplexed you know that a person is
perplexed when they are confused
by something very complex.
You can think of perplexity as a measure
of the complexity in a sample of texts,
like how complex that text is.
Perplexity is used to tell us whether
a set of sentences look like they were
written by humans rather than by a simple
program choosing words at random.
A text that is written by humans is more
likely to have a lower perplexity score.
On the other hand,
a text generated by random more choice
would have a higher perplexity.
Let me show you how to calculate
the perplexity of the model.
You'll start by computing the probability
of all sentences in your test sets and
then raise the probability
to the power of -1 over m.
Perplexity is basically the inverse
probability of the test set
normalized by the number
of words in the test set.
So the higher the language model estimates
the probability of your test set,
the lower the perplexity is going to be.
As a side note worth mentioning,
perplexity as closely related to entropy,
which measures uncertainty.
Let's look at an example of two language
models that are going to return
different probabilities for
your test sets W.
There are 100 words in the test set,
so m is equal to 100.
The first model returns a 0.9 probability
of the test set which is very high.
This means that the first model
predicts your test sets very well.
So the model is highly effective.
As you can see the perplexity for
that model and
test set is about one which is very low.
The second model returns a very low
probability for your test sets,
10 to the power of -250.
For this model and test set,
the perplexity is equal to about 316 which
is much higher than the first model.
So one thing to remember is that
the smaller the perplexity score,
the more likely the sentence is
to sound natural to human ears.
For context, good language models
have perplexity scores between 60
to20 sometimes even lower for English.
Perplexities for character level
language models where you track
characters instead of words will be lower.
Now it gets ready to calculate
perplexity for bigram models and
a bigram model you calculate the product
of bigram probabilities of all sentences,
then take the power of -1 over m.
Recall that the power of -1 over m of
the probability is the same as the mth or
the roots of one over probability.
One thing to notice here is that in the
case of the same probability for different
test sets, the bigger the sets m is the
lower the final perplexity is going to be.
If all sentences in the test set
are concatenated the formula can be
simplified to the product of probabilities
of bigrams in the entire sets.
One other thing to note is that some
papers use log perplexity instead of
perplexity.
So the perplexity formula changes from the
mth or the roots of one over probability
to 1 over m times the sum of the
logarithms of the probabilities of words.
This is easier to compute.
So it's not uncommon to find researchers
reporting the log perplexity of
language models.
Note that the algorithm to the base two
is typically used in a good model with
perplexity between 20 and 16 log
perplexity would be between 4.3 and 5.9.
Now how does the improved perplexity
translate in a production quality
language model?
Here is an example of
a Wall Street Journal corpus.
If you take a unigram language model,
the perplexity is very high, 962.
This just generates words
by their probability.
With a bigram language model, the text
starts to make a little more sense.
Using a trigram you can see the language
it produces is pretty close to reasonable.
The perplexity is now equal to 109,
much closer to the target perplexity
of 20 to 60 I mentioned earlier.
Later in the specialization you'll
encounter deep learning language
models with even lower
perplexities course.
You now understand what perplexity is and
how to evaluate language models.
To use them for real tasks,
we will need to be able to handle words
that did not occur in the training set.
I'll show you how to do
that in the next video.